jsondata
========

This package is aimed for the management of modular data structures
based on JSON. Therefore it is based on and supports JSON patch and JSON
pointer standards, in addition extended features are provided.

The data is represented by an in-memory main data tree with dynamically
added and/or removed branches and values. The logical branches of data
structures in particular provide for the ease of custom data sets. The
in-memory data could be serialized as JSON files for persistent storage
and reuse.

The 'jsondata' package provides a standards conform layer for the
processing of JSON based data with emphasis on in-memory performance and
low resource consume. The implementation integrates seamless into the
standard interfaces of Python(>=2.7), whereas higher level features of
additional standards are introduced on top.

The main interface classes are:

-  **JSONData** - Core for RFC7159 based data structures. Provides
   modular data components.

-  **JSONDataSerializer** - Core for RFC7159 based data persistence.
   Provides modular data serialization.

-  **JSONPointer** - RFC6901 for addressing by pointer paths. Provides
   pointer arithmetics.

-  **JSONPatch** - RFC6902 for modification by patch lists. Provides the
   assembly of modular patch entries and the serialization of resulting
   patch lists.

The syntax primitives of underlying layers are provided by the imported
packages '**json**' or the package ultra-json '**ujson**', and
'**jsonschema**' in conformance to related ECMA and RFC standards and
proposals. Here ECMA-262, ECMA-404, RFC7159/RFC4627,
draft-zyp-json-schema-04, and others.

The architecture is based on the packages 'json' or 'ujson', and
'jsonschema'::

::

                   +-------------------------+
    Applications   |    application-layer    |
                   +-------------------------+
    .   .  .  .  .  . | .  .  . | .  .  .  | .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
                   + - - - - - - - - - - - - +    see package jsoncompute,
    Process JSON   |     JSON processing     |    jsondataunit,
                   + - - - - - - - - - - - - +    jsoncliopts
    .   .  .  .  .  . | .  .  . | .  .  .  | .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
                      |         V          |
                      |   +----------+     |      RFC6901
    Data              |   | jsondata |     |      RFC6902
    Structures        |   +----------+     |      +others +extensions
                      |      |    |        |
    .  .  .  .  .  .  | .  . | .  | .  .  .| .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
                      +---+--+    +---+----+
                          |           |
                          V           V
                   +------------+------------+    RFC7159/RFC4267
    JSON           |    json,   | jsonschema |    ECMA-262/ECMA-404
    Syntax         |    ujson   |            |    draft-zyp-json-schema-04
                   +------------+------------+

The examples from the standards with some extensions, are included in
order to verify implementation details for the recommendations. This
serves also as a first introduction to JSON processing with the package
'jsondata'. For the compliance tests extracted from IETF and ECMA
standards refer to the directories:

-  UseCases

**Downloads**:

-  Sourceforge.net: https://sourceforge.net/projects/jsondata/files/

-  Github: https://github.com/ArnoCan/jsondata/

**Online documentation**:

-  https://pypi.python.org/pypi/jsondata/
-  https://pythonhosted.org/jsondata/

setup.py
--------

The installer adds a few options to the standard setuptools options.

-  *build\_doc*: Creates Sphinx based documentation with embeded
   javadoc-style API documentation, html only.

-  *build\_sphinx*: Creates documentation for runtime system by Sphinx,
   html only. Calls 'callDocSphinx.sh'.

-  *build\_epydoc*: Creates standalone documentation for runtime system
   by Epydoc, html only.

-  *project\_doc*: Install a local copy into the doc directory of the
   project.

-  *instal\_doc*: Install a local copy of the previously build documents
   in accordance to PEP-370.

-  *test*: Runs PyUnit tests by discovery.

-  *usecases*: Runs PyUnit UseCases by discovery, a lightweight set of
   unit tests.

-  *--no-install-required*: Suppresses installation dependency checks,
   requires appropriate PYTHONPATH.

-  *--offline*: Sets online dependencies to offline, or ignores online
   dependencies.

-  *--exit*: Exit 'setup.py'.

-  *--help-jsoncliopts*: Displays this help.

After successful installation the 'selftest' verifies basic checks by:

*jsoncliopts --selftest*

with the exit value '0' when OK.

The option '-v' raises the degree of verbosity for inspection

*jsoncliopts --selftest -v -v -v -v*

Project Data
------------

-  PROJECT: 'jsondata'

-  MISSION: Provide and extend JSONPointer and JSONPatch - RFC6901,
   RFC6902

-  VERSION: 00.02

-  RELEASE: 00.02

-  NICKNAME: 'Mafumo'

-  STATUS: alpha

-  AUTHOR: Arno-Can Uestuensoez

-  COPYRIGHT: Copyright (C) 2010,2011,2015-2016 Arno-Can Uestuensoez
   @Ingenieurbuero Arno-Can Uestuensoez

-  LICENSE: Artistic-License-2.0 + Forced-Fairplay-Constraints Refer to
   enclose documents:

-  ArtisticLicense20.html - for base license: Artistic-License-2.0

-  licenses-amendments.txt - for amendments: Forced-Fairplay-Constraints

VERSIONS and RELEASES
---------------------

**Planned Releases:**

-  RELEASE: 00.00.00x - Pre-Alpha: Extraction of the features from
   hard-coded application into a reusable package.

-  RELEASE: 00.01.00x - Alpha: Completion of basic features.

-  RELEASE: 00.02.00x - Alpha: Completion of features, stable interface.

-  RELEASE: 00.03.00x - Beta: Accomplish test cases for medium to high
   complexity.

-  RELEASE: 00.04.00x - Production: First production release. Estimated
   number of UnitTests := 1000.

-  RELEASE: 00.05.00x - Production: Various performance enhancements.

**Current Release: 00.02.018 - Alpha:**

Major Changes:

-  Fix and extension of documentation.

-  Extended classes by operators.

-  Renamed 'jsondatacheck' to 'jsondc'.

-  Removed 'callJSONDataCheck.sh'.

-  Platforms: Currentl tested on Fedora-Linux, remaining are going to
   follow soon.

Current test status:

-  UnitTests: >510

-  Use-Cases as UnitTests: >331

**Total**: >888
